## Amalgamated Source Code

The individual source files of my projects are too numerous to upload individually.

The files here are amalgamations created by my compiler. They can be compiled directly in that form, or with a simple tool can be extracted again.

**Note**: the .ma extension apparently means something to github, so the text is highlighted in a funny way. All sources need 4-space tabs but github uses 8 spaces.

### Guide to Projects

Language | Product  | Project | Written In | Lead Module | Amalgamation
--- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ---
M |  mm.exe | mx |  M  | mm.m | mm.ma 
Q |  qq.exe | qx |  M  | qq.m | qq.ma
QM |  bb.exe | bx |  M  | bb.m | bb.ma
ASM |  aa.exe |  ax  | M |  aa.m | aa.ma
C |  bcc.exe | cx |  M  | cc.m | cc.ma
PCL | pc.exe | px | M | pc.m | pc.ma


Product | Description
--- | ---
aa | x64-subset Assembly/Linker
bcc | Experimental C-subset compiler 
mm | M compiler
qq | Q compiler/interpeter
bb | 'QM' Q with embedded M compiler/interpeter (WIP)
pc | 'PCL' intermediate language (now abandoned)

Language | Description
--- | ---
M | My systems programming language
Q | My dynamic, interpreted, embeddable scripting language
QM | A temporary name for a new Q version with embedded M functions
ASM | In this context, the source format of my x64-subset assembly language
C  | Here, it means the large subset of C that my bcc product compiles
PCL | An intermediate language, see below

(PCL is a discrete IL used in my M compilers in 2021. Now abandoned - PCL is still used but is an internal language.

This product, pc.exe, can still take PCL sources files generated by older versions of the M compiler, and turn then into EXEs. Further, such files could be generated by compilers of other languages. A sort of mini LLVM.)


#### Notes

* **'Product'** is the name of the executable. For these programs, it is always a single, self-contained file
* **'Project'** is the name of the project folder on my machine
